
# What's new in Xcode 16
* supports [editor.config](https://editorconfig.org/) files. 
  * Xcode supports the following settings: indent_style, tab_width, indent_size, end_of_line, insert_final_newline, max_line_length, and trim_trailing_whitespace.
* Several improvements to parallel compilation, new complile inspection tools

## Swift Testing
* Modern replacement for XCTest
* Heavy use of macros and property wrappers
* Can feed test functions collections of input data, tests run in parallel
* Nice new UI to help show failures, stack trace, and memory. 
* https://developer.apple.com/xcode/swift-testing/

## Swift Packages
* Now supports running tests written using Swift Testing. To enable these tests at the command line, pass `--enable-swift-testing`.
* `swiftLanguageVersion` can be specified at the target level, allowing for gradual per-target migration to the Swift 6 language mode. (125732014)
* [[SE-0301](https://github.com/swiftlang/swift-evolution/blob/main/proposals/0301-package-editing-commands.md)] has been implemented, allowing `Package.swift` to be edited through new package commands `add-dependency`, `add-product`, and `add-target`. See swift package <command> -h for more details. (126377239)
  * `/Applications/Xcode-16.0.0-Beta.app/Contents/Developer/Toolchains/XcodeDefault.xctoolchain/usr/bin/swift`

## What's new in Swift
* Functions can now specify the type of error that they throw ([typed throws (SE-0413)](https://github.com/swiftlang/swift-evolution/blob/main/proposals/0413-typed-throws.md)) as part of the function signature. For example: 
  ```swift
  func parseRecord(from string: String) throws(ParseError) -> Record { ... }

  extension Sequence {
    func map<T, E>(_ body: (Element) throws(E) -> T) throws(E) -> [T] { ... }
  }
  ```
  * This is compatible with Swift 5 as well as Swift 6 with some difference to inferance when throws are not typed. 



# References
* [Xcode 16 Release Notes](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcode-release-notes/xcode-16-release-notes)
* [iOS 18 Release Rotes](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/ios-ipados-release-notes/ios-ipados-18-release-notes)

## Explore effective debugging in LLDB
* TODO (coming next)
## Swift 6
* TODO (coming next)
## Swift Charts: Vectorized and function plots
* TODO (coming next)
## What's new in AppKit
* TODO (coming next)
## What's new in UIKit
* TODO (coming next)







HatchSleep-iOS will not compile on Xcode 16
`Apollo.SQLite.Expression` fails to commpile for abmiquitiy. 
Why? `Foundation.Expression` introduced on macOS15



 