
# Xcode
* New find types “Ancestor, Descendent, Conforming”
  * Select these from the dropdown where you change between text, regular expression, etc…
  * Or right click on some text -> Find -> (new entries here too)
* New Quick Actions tool (cmd+shift+a) is a lot like VSCode’s command pallette (cmd+shift+p).
  * Basically you can invoke any of the menu functions and more.
* Bookmarks are a great replacement for our `#warning("TODO: .... "). They can be added, annotated, checked off, etc... I think these are stored under xcuserdata/ which is gitignored (so they shouldn’t be committed).
* String Catalogs look much better than what we are doing our SwiftGen strings.
  * Support for plurals, comments, translator checklists
  * Catalog scrapes code at compile time to auto-add strings
  * I’m not sure how these work when the catalog lives in a package though.
* Console: I missed the menu to show catalog, subsystem, etc...
* LLDB’s reimplementation p and po. aka print-dwim (print do what I mean)

# c++ Support
* This looks a lot like obj-c++, but there is no bridging toll to pay here
* c++ can consume Swift types, and Swift can consume c++ types
  * This starts small with Swift’s reference counting / c++ smart pointers (which are reference counted too)
  * And it goes quite deep with Swift’s actor / c++ FUTURE
* The new ~Copyable / consuming constructs are useful for passing ownership of a value type instead of making a copy (this is good for systems/embedded type code and c++ interop).

# Concurrency
* Actor can now define which dispatchQueue they run on by implementing SerialExecutor
* I’d like to see this brought to Task next release.

# Swift Macros:
* When creating a new package using Xcode, there is a Swift Macro template which does a lot of the boilerplate Package.Swift stuff for you and includes an example macro with unit tests.
* #Preview
* Supports UIKit and AppKit. You an load up UIViewController, UIView, etc...
* Can run previews on real devices. Live on your iPhone, or in a window on Mac.


---



